# INFSCI1201-Game
Game is the zip file inside folder "Game/"

  The game concept was inspired by the children’s book If You Give a Mouse a Cookie. The book’s linear, cause-and-effect storytelling lent itself well to a platformer game, where players collect items to progress. The initial design included ten levels, stealth mechanics, and item collection, but the gameplay felt uninspiring. By reflecting on Talking to Humans (Constable, pg. 12), the development team focused on gathering feedback from a target audience of college students. Feedback emphasized the need for deeper mechanics and more engaging rewards, prompting a shift in the design to incorporate evolving gameplay tied to collected items.
  Neo is mainly responsible for the script and level design of the game, and Matthew is mainly responsible for the art and story design. The process of making the game was not smooth sailing; we encountered too many problems; first of all, in this project, except for the tilemap template, the rest of the art resources were all hand-painted by ourselves in the process of learning to use sprite animation constantly encountered such problems as export bugs, painting style is not uniform. On the procedural side, some of the game mechanics we need, such as the character transformation in Level 3, the invisible level in Level 4, the character color change in Level 5, and the mechanism for the level to determine the color of the character and allow the character to pass through, are relatively rare game mechanics in 2d games. It is hard for finding the corresponding tutorial online, and finally, we find our own way to achieve it in an experiment. In the fifth level, we designed three kinds of collision zones of tags to detect and turn off the collision volume of characters to achieve the effect of penetrating the wall. As for the complex problem that the character only changes color in outline without affecting the animation playback, we also achieved it by drawing additional moving, jumping, and standby animations of different colors through the more complex judgment of the animation controller.
  Overall, the time ofr development was short, and we still had a lot of wild ideas about level design and game mechanics that still needed to be implemented. And the inexperience of the first development caused me to waste too much time on many new problems. Although the background generated by GPT is messy, the effect and efficiency are very good after passing a certain retouching. If we have enough time, we will design more exciting levels and make the game mechanics to the maximum, and after the project is over, we may explore some new features based on this game because we like the game we developed.
  
  
Game Source:
Cinemachine: https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.cinemachine@2.10/license/Third%20Party%20Notices.html
Tilemap:
Pixel Platformer Art Pack: https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/2d/environments/pixel-platformer-art-pack-165498
Soundtrack:
https://freesound.org/people/TiidWunduniik/sounds/489543/
https://freesound.org/people/nomiqbomi/sounds/651022/
https://freesound.org/people/carlmartin/sounds/158943/
https://freesound.org/people/Vihaleipa/sounds/320262/
https://freesound.org/people/cabled_mess/sounds/350981/
https://freesound.org/people/Mrsamysamson/sounds/92830/

